A service-level agreement (SLA) is a formal agreement between a service company and the customer. For Azure, this agreement defines the performance standards that Microsoft commits to
 for you, the customer. https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/support/legal/sla/

When you build applications on Azure, the availability of the services that you use affect your application's performance.

Each Azure service defines its own SLA. Azure services are organized by category.

A typical SLA breaks down into these sections:
-Introduction: This section explains what to expect in the SLA, including its scope and how subscription renewals can affect the terms.
-General terms: This section contains terms that are used throughout the SLA so that both parties (you and Microsoft) have a consistent vocabulary. This section also defines the general
 terms of the agreement, including how to submit a claim, receive credit for any performance or availability issues, and limitations of the agreement.
-SLA details: This section defines the specific guarantees for the service. Performance commitments are commonly measured as a percentage. That percentage typically ranges from 99.9
 percent ("three nines") to 99.99 percent ("four nines"). The primary performance commitment typically focuses on uptime, or the percentage of time that a product or service is
 successfully operational. Some SLAs focus on other factors as well, including latency, or how fast the service must respond to a request.

Downtime refers to the time duration that the service is unavailable.

A service credit is the percentage of the fees you paid that are credited back to you according to the claim approval process.

Free products typically don't have an SLA.

Azure status provides a global view of the health of Azure services and regions. If you suspect there's an outage, this is often a good place to start your investigation.
 https://status.azure.com/status


Application SLA
 An application SLA defines the SLA requirements for a specific application.
 Business impact, Effect on other business operations, Usage patterns
 If an app has 4 workloads:
  -Two virtual machines: 99.9%
  -One instance of Azure SQL Database:99.99%
  -One instance of Azure Load Balancer: 99.99%
 , the composite SLA is 99.78%


to improve the availability of the application, avoid having any single points of failure. So instead of adding more virtual machines, you can deploy one or more extra instances of the
 same virtual machine across the different availability zones in the same Azure region. Two virtual machines: 99.99% => composite SLA is now 99.96%

To ensure high availability, you might plan for your application to have duplicate components across several regions, known as redundancy.





