Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a category of computing that adapts and improves its decision-making ability over time based on its successes and failures.
 Allows a software system to perceive its environment and take action that maximizes its chance of successfully achieving its goals.

There are two basic approaches to AI:
 -The first is to employ a deep learning system that's modeled on the neural network of the human mind, enabling it to discover, learn, and grow through experience.
 -The second approach is machine learning, a data science technique that uses existing data to train a model, test it, and then apply the model to new data to forecast future behaviors,
  outcomes, and trends.


Azure Machine Learning:
 It is a platform for making predictions. It consists of tools and services that allow you to connect to data to train and test models to find one that will most accurately predict a
  future result. After you've run experiments to test the model, you can deploy and use it in real time via a web API endpoint.
 Choose Azure Machine Learning when your data scientists need complete control over the design and training of an algorithm using your own data.


Azure Cognitive Services:
 It provides prebuilt machine learning models that enable applications to see, hear, speak, understand, and even begin to reason. Use Azure Cognitive Services to solve general problems,
  such as analyzing text for emotional sentiment or analyzing images to recognize objects or faces. You don't need special machine learning or data science knowledge to use these
  services. Developers access Azure Cognitive Services via APIs and can easily include these features in just a few lines of code.
 It can be divided into the following categories:
  -Language services: Allow your apps to process natural language with prebuilt scripts, evaluate sentiment, and learn how to recognize what users want.
  -Speech services: Convert speech into text and text into natural-sounding speech. Translate from one language to another and enable speaker verification and recognition.
  -Vision services: Add recognition and identification capabilities when you're analyzing pictures, videos, and other visual content.
  -Decision services: Add personalized recommendations for each user that automatically improve each time they're used, moderate content to monitor and remove offensive or risky
   content, and detect abnormalities in your time series data.


Azure Bot Service:
 Azure Bot Service and Bot Framework are platforms for creating virtual agents that understand and reply to questions just like a human.
 A Bot has a specific use case.
 Before you jump in to build a custom chat experience by using Bot Service, it might make sense to search for prebuilt, no-code solutions that cover common scenarios.



Criteria:
1. Are you building a virtual agent that interfaces with humans via natural language? Azure Bot Service.
2. Do you need a service that can understand the content and meaning of images, video, or audio, or that can translate text into a different language? Azure Cognitive Services.
3. Do you need to predict user behavior or provide users with personalized recommendations in your app? Azure Machine Learning.
4. Do you need to build a model by using your own data or perform a different task than those listed above? Azure Machine Learning.


