Modern software systems running in the cloud are complex, and gaining visibility into the health and performance of your application-hosting environment across all of its layers of
 services is challenging. Fortunately, there are several solutions that can help you react quickly to outages, research intermittent issues, optimize your usage, and be proactive in
 handling future planned downtime.




1. Azure Advisor:
 Azure Advisor evaluates your Azure resources and makes recommendations to help improve reliability, security, and performance, achieve operational excellence, and reduce costs. Advisor
  is designed to help you save time on cloud optimization. The recommendation service includes suggested actions you can take right away, postpone, or dismiss.
 The recommendations are divided into five categories:
  -Reliability: Used to ensure and improve the continuity of your business-critical applications.
  -Security: Used to detect threats and vulnerabilities that might lead to security breaches.
  -Performance: Used to improve the speed of your applications.
  -Cost: Used to optimize and reduce your overall Azure spending.
  -Operational Excellence: Used to help you achieve process and workflow efficiency, resource manageability, and deployment best practices.


2. Azure Monitor:
 It is a platform for collecting, analyzing, visualizing, and potentially taking action based on the metric and logging data from your entire Azure and on-premises environment.
 Additionally, you can use the data to help you react to critical events in real time, through alerts delivered to teams via SMS, email, and so on. Or you can use thresholds to trigger
  autoscaling functionality to scale up or down to meet the demand.
 Some popular products such as Azure Application Insights, a service for sending telemetry information from application source code to Azure, uses Azure Monitor under the hood. With
  Application Insights, your application developers can take advantage of the powerful data-analysis platform in Azure Monitor to gain deep insights into an application's operations and
  diagnose errors without having to wait for users to report them.


3. Azure Service Health:
 It provides a personalized view of the health of the Azure services, regions, and resources you rely on. You can set up alerts that help you triage outages and planned maintenance.
  After an outage, Service Health provides official incident reports, called root cause analyses (RCAs), which you can share with stakeholders.
 Service Health helps you keep an eye on several event types:
  -Service issues are problems in Azure, such as outages, that affect you right now. You can drill down to the affected services, regions, updates from your engineering teams, and find
   ways to share and track the latest information.
  -Planned maintenance events can affect your availability. You can drill down to the affected services, regions, and details to show how an event will affect you and what you need to
   do. Most of these events occur without any impact to you and aren't shown here. In the rare case that a reboot is required, Service Health allows you to choose when to perform the
   maintenance to minimize the downtime.
  -Health advisories are issues that require you to act to avoid service interruption, including service retirements and breaking changes. Health advisories are announced far in advance
   to allow you to plan.


Decision criteria:
1. Do you need to analyze how you're using Azure to reduce costs, improve resilience, or harden your security? Azure Advisor.
2. Do you want to monitor Azure services or your usage of Azure?
 -keep tabs on Azure itself: Azure Service Health.
 -keep track of the performance or issues related to your specific VM or container instances, databases, your applications, and so on: Azure Monitor and create reports and notifications
  to help you understand how your services are performing or diagnose issues related to your Azure usage.
3. Do you want to measure custom events alongside other usage metrics? Azure Monitor.
4. Do you need to set up alerts for outages or when autoscaling is about to deploy new instances? Azure Monitor.




