Azure IoT Hub:
It is a managed service that's hosted in the cloud and that acts as a central message hub for bi-directional communication between your IoT application and the devices it manages. You
 can use Azure IoT Hub to build IoT solutions with reliable and secure communications between millions of IoT devices and a cloud-hosted solution back end. You can connect virtually any
 device to your IoT hub.
The IoT Hub service supports communications both from the device to the cloud and from the cloud to the device. The IoT Hub service supports communications both from the device to the
 cloud and from the cloud to the device.
IoT Hub monitoring helps you maintain the health of your solution by tracking events such as device creation, device failures, and device connections.

Azure IoT Central:
It builds on top of IoT Hub by adding a dashboard that allows you to connect, monitor, and manage your IoT devices. The visual user interface (UI) makes it easy to quickly connect new
 devices and watch as they begin sending telemetry or error messages. You can watch the overall performance across all devices in aggregate, and you can set up alerts that send
 notifications when a specific device needs maintenance. Finally, you can push firmware updates to the device.
A key part of IoT Central is the use of device templates. By using a device template, you can connect a device without any service-side coding. IoT Central uses the templates to
 construct the dashboards, alerts, and so on. Device developers still need to create code to run on the devices, and that code must match the device template specification.

Azure Sphere:
Azure Sphere creates an end-to-end, highly secure IoT solution for customers that encompasses everything from the hardware and operating system on the device to the secure method of
 sending messages from the device to the message hub. Azure Sphere has built-in communication and security features for internet-connected devices.
Azure Sphere comes in three parts:
 -Azure Sphere micro-controller unit (MCU), which is responsible for processing the operating system and signals from attached sensors.
 -A customized Linux operating system (OS) handles communication with the security service and can run the vendor's software
 -Azure Sphere Security Service, also known as AS3, which job is to make sure that the device has not been maliciously compromised.


Analyze the decision criteria:
When security is a critical consideration in your product's design, the best product option is Azure Sphere, which provides a comprehensive end-to-end solution for IoT devices.
Your next decision will be the level of services you require from your IoT solution. If you merely want to connect to your remote devices to receive telemetry and occasionally push
 updates, and you don't need any reporting capabilities, you might prefer to implement Azure IoT Hub by itself. Your programmers can still create a customized set of management tools
 and reports by using the IoT Hub RESTful API.
However, if you want a pre-built customizable user interface with which you can view and control your devices remotely, you might prefer to start with IoT Central. With this solution,
 you can control a single device or all devices at once, and you can set up alerts for certain conditions, such as a device failure.


security && dashboard for reporting and management ? sphere and central
security && !dashboard for reporting and management ? sphere and hub
!security && dashboard for reporting and management ? central
!security && !dashboard for reporting and management ? hub

