With the rise of remote work, bring your own device (BYOD), mobile applications, and cloud applications, the primary security boundary has shifted from firewalls and physical access
 controls to identity.

Authentication (AuthN) is the process of establishing the identity of a person or service that wants to access a resource. It involves the act of challenging a party for legitimate
 credentials and provides the basis for creating a security principal for identity and access control. It establishes whether the user is who they say they are.

Authentication (AuthZ) establishes the user's identity, but authorization is the process of establishing what level of access an authenticated person or service has. It specifies what
 data they're allowed to access and what they can do with it.

Once authenticated, authorization defines what kinds of applications, resources, and data that user can access.


Azure Active Directory
 Azure AD is Microsoft's cloud-based identity and access management service. With Azure AD, you control the identity accounts, but Microsoft ensures that the service is available
  globally.

 Azure AD is for:
  -IT administrators: Administrators can use Azure AD to control access to applications and resources based on their business requirements.
  -App developers: Developers can use Azure AD to provide a standards-based approach for adding functionality to applications that they build, such as adding SSO functionality to an app
   or enabling an app to work with a user's existing credentials.
  -Users: Users can manage their identities. For example, self-service password reset enables users to change or reset their password with no involvement from an IT administrator or
   help desk.
  -Online service subscribers: Microsoft 365, Microsoft Office 365, Azure, and Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online subscribers are already using Azure AD. A tenant is a representation of an
   organization. A tenant is typically separated from other tenants and has its own identity. Each Microsoft 365, Office 365, Azure, and Dynamics CRM Online tenant is automatically an
   Azure AD tenant.

 Azure AD provides services such as:
  -Authentication: This includes verifying identity to access applications and resources. It also includes providing functionality such as self-service password reset, multifactor
   authentication, a custom list of banned passwords, and smart lockout services.
  -Single sign-on: SSO enables you to remember only one username and one password to access multiple applications. A single identity is tied to a user, which simplifies the security
   model. As users change roles or leave an organization, access modifications are tied to that identity, which greatly reduces the effort needed to change or disable accounts. Single
   sign-on enables a user to sign in one time and use that credential to access multiple resources and applications from different providers.
  -Application management: You can manage your cloud and on-premises apps by using Azure AD. Features like Application Proxy, SaaS apps, the My Apps portal (also called the access
   panel), and single sign-on provide a better user experience.
  -Device management: Along with accounts for individual people, Azure AD supports the registration of devices. Registration enables devices to be managed through tools like Microsoft
   Intune. It also allows for device-based Conditional Access policies to restrict access attempts to only those coming from known devices, regardless of the requesting user account.


Azure AD Connect synchronizes user identities between on-premises Active Directory and Azure AD. Azure AD Connect synchronizes changes between both identity systems, so you can use
 features like SSO, multifactor authentication, and self-service password reset under both systems.


Azure AD Multi-Factor Authentication
 It enables users to choose an additional form of authentication during sign-in, such as a phone call or mobile app notification.
 The Azure Active Directory free edition enables Azure AD Multi-Factor Authentication for administrators with the global admin level of access, via the Microsoft Authenticator app,
  phone call, or SMS code. You can also enforce Azure AD Multi-Factor Authentication for all users via the Microsoft Authenticator app only, by enabling security defaults in your Azure
  AD tenant.
 Azure Active Directory Premium (P1 or P2 licenses) allows for comprehensive and granular configuration of Azure AD Multi-Factor Authentication through Conditional Access policies.


Conditional Access
 Conditional Access is a tool that Azure Active Directory uses to allow (or deny) access to resources based on identity signals.
 These signals include who the user is, where the user is, and what device the user is requesting access from.
 During sign-in, Conditional Access collects signals from the user, makes decisions based on those signals, and then enforces that decision by allowing or denying the access request or
  challenging for a multifactor authentication response.

