The term governance describes the general process of establishing rules and policies and ensuring that those rules and policies are enforced.
When running in the cloud, a good governance strategy helps you maintain control over the applications and resources that you manage in the cloud.

Maintaining control over your environment ensures that you stay compliant with:
-Industry standards, like PCI DSS (Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard (DSS))
-Corporate or organizational standards, such as ensuring that network data is encrypted.

Governance is most beneficial when you have:
-Multiple engineering teams working in Azure.
-Multiple subscriptions to manage.
-Regulatory requirements that must be enforced.
-Standards that must be followed for all cloud resources.


Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC)
 Control access to cloud resources.
 It's a good security practice to grant users only the rights they need to perform their job, and only to the relevant resources.
 Azure provides built-in roles that describe common access rules for cloud resources. You can also define your own roles. Each role has an associated set of access permissions that
  relate to that role. When you assign individuals or groups to one or more roles, they receive all of the associated access permissions.
 Role-based access control is applied to a scope, which is a resource or set of resources that this access applies to.
 Scopes include: A management group (a collection of multiple subscriptions), A single subscription, A resource group, A single resource.
 Observers, Users managing resources, Admins, and Automated processes illustrate the kinds of users or accounts that would typically be assigned each of the various roles.
 When you grant access at a parent scope, those permissions are inherited by all child scopes.
 Azure RBAC is enforced on any action that's initiated against an Azure resource that passes through Azure Resource Manager.


Resource lock
 It is a warning system that reminds you that a resource should not be deleted or changed.
 You can manage resource locks from the Azure portal, PowerShell, the Azure CLI, or from an Azure Resource Manager template.
 You can apply locks to a subscription, a resource group, or an individual resource. You can set the lock level to CanNotDelete or ReadOnly.


Azure Blueprints
 Azure Blueprints enables you to define the set of standard Azure resources that your organization requires.
 For example, you can define a blueprint that specifies that a certain resource lock must exist. Azure Blueprints can automatically replace the resource lock if that lock is removed.
 Instead of having to configure features like Azure Policy for each new subscription, with Azure Blueprints you can define a repeatable set of governance tools and standard Azure
  resources that your organization requires. In this way, development teams can rapidly build and deploy new environments with the knowledge that they're building within organizational
  compliance with a set of built-in components that speed the development and deployment phases.
 Azure Blueprints orchestrates the deployment of various resource templates and other artifacts, such as:
  -Role assignments
  -Policy assignments
  -Azure Resource Manager templates
  -Resource groups
 Each component in the blueprint definition is known as an artifact.


Tags
 One way to organize related resources is to place them in their own subscriptions and use resource groups.
 Resource tags are another way to organize resources. Tags provide extra information, or metadata, about your resources. 
 Tags are not inherited, except you use Azure Policy.
 You can run queries, for example, from PowerShell or the Azure CLI, to list all resources that contain certain tags.
 You can also use Azure Policy to enforce tagging rules and conventions.


Azure Policy
 Azure Policy is a service in Azure that enables you to create, assign, and manage policies that control or audit your resources. These policies enforce different rules across all of
  your resource configurations so that those configurations stay compliant with corporate standards.
 It evaluates your resources and highlights resources that aren't compliant with the policies you've created. Azure Policy can also prevent noncompliant resources from being created.
 Azure Policy enables you to define both individual policies and groups of related policies, known as initiatives.
 Implementing a policy in Azure Policy involves three tasks:
  1. Create a policy definition.
  2. Assign the definition to resources.
  3. Review the evaluation results.
 A policy definition expresses what to evaluate and what action to take.
 Policy assignments are inherited by all child resources within that scope. You can exclude a subscope from the policy assignment.
 Policy evaluation happens about once per hour.


Azure Policy initiatives
 An Azure Policy initiative is a way of grouping related policies together. The initiative definition contains all of the policy definitions to help track your compliance state for a
  larger goal. For example, Azure Policy includes an initiative named Enable Monitoring in Azure Security Center. Its goal is to monitor all of the available security recommendations
  for all Azure resource types in Azure Security Center.
 Azure Policy also includes initiatives that support regulatory compliance standards, such as HIPAA and ISO 27001.
 You also can create your own custom policy definition.
 Like a policy assignment, an initiative assignment is an initiative definition that's assigned to a specific scope of a management group, a subscription, or a resource group.


Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure
 The Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure provides you with proven guidance to help with your cloud adoption journey; helps you create and implement the business and technology strategies
  needed to succeed in the cloud. Cloud Adoption Framework consists of tools, documentation, and proven practices.
 The Cloud Adoption Framework includes these stages:
  -Define your strategy. Here, you answer why you're moving to the cloud and what you want to get out of cloud migration.
  -Make a plan. Here, you build a plan that maps your aspirational goals to specific actions.
  -Ready your organization. Here, you create a landing zone, or an environment in the cloud to begin hosting your workloads.
  -Adopt the cloud. Here, you begin to migrate your applications to the cloud. Along the way, you might find ways to modernize your applications and build innovative solutions that use
   cloud services.
  -Govern and manage your cloud environments. 


Subscription governance strategy
 This step often involves forming a cloud center of excellence team (also called a cloud enablement team or a cloud custodian team). This team is empowered to implement governance
  practices from a centralized location for the entire organization.
 Teams often start their Azure governance strategy at the subscription level. There are three main aspects to consider when you create and manage subscriptions:
  -Billing: You can create one billing report per subscription. If you have multiple departments and need to do a "chargeback" of cloud costs, one possible solution is to organize
   subscriptions by department or by project. Resource tags can also help.
  -Access Control: A subscription is a deployment boundary for Azure resources. Every subscription is associated with an Azure Active Directory tenant. Each tenant provides
   administrators the ability to set granular access through defined roles by using Azure role-based access control. Consider the deployment boundary factor: separate subscriptions for
   development and for production environments
  -Subscription limits: Subscriptions also have some resource limitations.




