Azure Cosmos DB
Azure SQL Database
Azure SQL Managed Instance
Azure Database for MySQL
Azure Database for PostgreSQL
Azure Synapse Analytics
Azure HDInsight
Azure Databricks
Azure Data Lake Analytics


Azure Cosmos DB:
 It is a globally distributed, multi-model database service. You can elastically and independently scale throughput and storage across any number of Azure regions worldwide. You can
  take advantage of fast, single-digit-millisecond data access by using any one of several popular APIs. Azure Cosmos DB provides comprehensive service level agreements for throughput,
  latency, availability, and consistency guarantees.
 Azure Cosmos DB supports schema-less data, which lets you build highly responsive and "Always On" applications to support constantly changing data. You can use this feature to store
  data that's updated and maintained by users around the world.
 Azure Cosmos DB is flexible. At the lowest level, Azure Cosmos DB stores data in atom-record-sequence (ARS) format. The data is then abstracted and projected as an API, which you
  specify when you're creating your database. Your choices include SQL, MongoDB, Cassandra, Tables, and Gremlin. This level of flexibility means that as you migrate your company's
  databases to Azure Cosmos DB, your developers can stick with the API that they're the most comfortable with.


Azure SQL Database:
 It is a relational database based on the latest stable version of the Microsoft SQL Server database engine. SQL Database is a high-performance, reliable, fully managed, and secure
  database. You can use it to build data-driven applications and websites in the programming language of your choice, without needing to manage infrastructure.
 PaaS capabilities that are built into SQL Database enable you to focus on the domain-specific database administration and optimization activities that are critical for your business.
 It enables you to process both relational data and non-relational structures, such as graphs, JSON, spatial, and XML.
 You can migrate your existing SQL Server databases with minimal downtime by using the Azure Database Migration Service. The Microsoft Data Migration Assistant can generate assessment
  reports that provide recommendations to help guide you through required changes prior to performing a migration. After you assess and resolve any remediation required, you're ready to
  begin the migration process. The Azure Database Migration Service performs all of the required steps. You just change the connection string in your apps.


Azure Database for MySQL:
 It is a relational database service in the cloud, and it's based on the MySQL Community Edition database engine, versions 5.6, 5.7, and 8.0.


Azure Database for PostgreSQL:
 The server software is based on the community version of the open-source PostgreSQL database engine.
 It is available in two deployment options: Single Server and Hyperscale (Citus).
  -Basic. Three pricing tiers: Basic, General Purpose, and Memory Optimized.
  -The Hyperscale (Citus) option horizontally scales queries across multiple machines by using sharding. Its query engine parallelizes incoming SQL queries across these servers for
   faster responses on large datasets. It serves applications that require greater scale and performance, generally workloads that are approaching, or already exceed, 100 GB of data.
   The Hyperscale (Citus) deployment option supports multi-tenant applications, real-time operational analytics, and high throughput transactional workloads. Applications built for
   PostgreSQL can run distributed queries on Hyperscale (Citus) with standard connection libraries and minimal changes.


Azure SQL Managed Instance:
 It is a scalable cloud data service that provides the broadest SQL Server database engine compatibility with all the benefits of a fully managed platform as a service.
 Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Managed Instance offer many of the same features; however, Azure SQL Managed Instance provides several options that might not be available to Azure SQL
  Database. For example, Azure SQL Database only uses the default SQL_Latin1_General_CP1_CI_AS server collation.


Azure supports a broad range of technologies and services to provide big data and analytic solutions, including Azure Synapse Analytics, Azure HDInsight, Azure Databricks, and Azure
 Data Lake Analytics.

